Scholars of ancient magic determined that the trajectories represented shadowsparks which were just starting to disrupt the border between planes.  Completion of that message would have solidified into a gate to the shadow plane and an untold number of demons would have poured through.  The darkness around that area is already beginning to dissipate.  Thanks to you, the order had time to learn the counter weave and dispell the shadowsparks.  This effectively blocked the gate into our city square from forming.  The recent occurrences have caused researchers to dig up more references to the shadow plane and, with the help of divination, piece together parts of various legends.

Long before the time of the spellplague, the negative energy of the shadow plane converged upon the Citadel.  A group of citadel guardians, back from the boarderlands, had requested assistance from The Lord of Light outside the citadel's protective boundary.  It was a trap.  She was led to The Prince of Demons known as Aameul and Hethrediah heads of the Demogorgon ruler of the Vale of Shadows.  Instantly, under the gaze of Hethrediah, The Lord of Light turned into the Dusk Lord.  It was as if in the blink of an eye, light was reversed for her.  Darkness became light and light became darkness.  She appreciated her guard for leading her to this new light.

It was clear that she needed to destroy Selûne's Ever Shining Orb and extinguish its “darkness.”  The Dusk Lord casted a mighty spell of inversion which converted the Shining Citadel into the Shadow Citadel.  The Shadow Orb created so much darkness it somehow made the shadow plane seem bright.  During this process, the crystal sphere of Azuth, known by the bounding seal, emerged from the orb.  Objects of such obscenity had to be destroyed.  However, it required aid from Aameul to break this seal.  And so it was that Shar was released and took members of the citadel to form the Church of Shar.  The Dusk Lord's militia guarded the orb against all especially those who might venture in from the material plane.  It was at this time that Thauglor, soothed by the strengthened darkness, came to roost.

Our plan is to borrow the Scepter of Savras (which is an incredibly powerful artifact capable of containing the entire essence of a god) from the great archive on Sigil, the City of Doors.  Their holy guard will accompany us to the Shadow Citadel in order to reignite Selûne's Ever Shining Orb and reestablish it as a base against the tides of shadow.  Apostles of Pelor carrying shards of the sun will light our way into the keep.  The leader of the guard will cast an amplified disjunction spell to rid the citadel and inhabitants of their curses.  It will be at this point we need your help.  Reality will splinter into countless pieces and it will be up to you to align them.  To assist you and your team, the elven cleric of, Labelas will slow things down for you.  We hope you're ready for this task.